# **DRAFT v. 0.1 FOR COMMENT: Managing Government Information Policy (MGIP)**

## **TABLE OF CONTENTS**

## [INTRODUCTION](#introduction)

## [Purpose](#purpose)

## [Overview](#overview)

## [Application](#application)

## [Authority](#authority)

## [Advice on this Policy](#advice-on-this-policy)

## [POLICY REQUIREMENTS](#policy-requirements)

## [1. Creation and Use](#1-creation-and-use)

## [2. Classification, Scheduling and Appraisal](#2-classification-scheduling-and-appraisal)

## [3. Preservation and Storage](#3-preservation-and-storage)

## [4. Transfer and Disposal](#4-transfer-and-disposal)

## [5. Training and Guidance](#5-training-and-guidance)

## [6. Evaluation and Compliance](#6-evaluation-and-compliance)

## [ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES](#roles-and-responsibilities)

## [DEFINITIONS](#definitions)


## **INTRODUCTION**

## **Purpose**

This policy sets out ministry obligations for managing government information, specifically as they relate to [Information Management Act (IMA)](#http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/15027) requirements.

## **Overview**

## **Application**

This policy applies to all ministries subject to the Core Policy and Procedures Manual. 

## **Authority**

Core Policy and Procedures Manual Chapter 12.

## **Advice on this Policy**

## **POLICY REQUIREMENTS**

## **1. Creation and Use**

## **2. Classification, Scheduling and Appraisal**

## **3. Preservation and Storage**

## **4. Transfer and Disposal**

## **5. Training and Guidance**

## **6. Evaluation and Compliance**

## **ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES**

## **DEFINITIONS**

### **Accessibility:**

The characteristic of being easily reached, retrieved, or used with minimum barriers. In the context of IM, accessibility refers to the availability and usability of recorded information. For information on the Province’s commitments to building a better B.C. for people with disabilities, please visit https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/governments/about-the-bc-government/accessibility.

### **Accession:**

A body of records registered as a unit (and given an accession number) for the purposes of administrative control. This includes physical identification and control of transfer, storage, retrieval, and disposition.  Accessions typically cover records maintained in a records storage facility contracted by government. 

### **Alienation:**

The permanent transfer of records and all present and future rights to the records from ministries to another entity in accordance with the IMA.

### **Authenticity:**

The quality of being genuine, not a counterfeit, and free from tampering or corruption. Authenticity alone does not automatically imply that the content of information is reliable or accurate; it merely establishes that information is what it purports to be and has verifiably been created by the person who claims to be the creator.

### **Classification:**

The process of identifying records or information in accordance with a predetermined filing or security system. This includes determination of the function and/or subject of a record and selection of the appropriate classification for filing.

### **Critical information:**

The records and data essential to the operations of a government business area. This includes information that supports business continuity by documenting and supporting core programs, functions, responsibilities and commitments (e.g., security and risk mitigation information, records needed to meet financial and legal requirements). Critical information also includes information of public interest and permanent value.

### **Data:**

The smallest meaningful units of recorded information generated by an organization, which gain significance when stored in a structured manner that enables them to be synthesized and interpreted.

### **Digital archives:**

As defined in [Part 1 of the IMA](http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/id/complete/statreg/15027#section1).

### **Dispose/Disposition:**

The process which enables government to dispose of records which no longer have operational value, either by permitting their destruction, by requiring their transfer to the government archives, or by agreeing to their alienation from control of government. 

### **Employee:**

An individual working for, or on behalf of, a ministry, agency, board or commission subject to the Core Policy and Procedures Manual. 

### **Government archives:**

The entirety of government information assets that have been appraised as having permanent value to government and society and are preserved and made publicly accessible. Government’s physical archival records are held by the Royal British Columbia Museum. The CRO is responsible for government’s digital archival holdings.  

### **Government information:**

As defined in Part 1 of the IMA. Can include both data and records.

### **Information:**

Any collection of data that is processed, analyzed, interpreted, classified or communicated in order to serve a useful purpose, present fact or represent knowledge in any medium or form.

### **Information management (IM):**

The means by which an organization plans, collects, organizes, governs, secures, uses, controls, disseminates, exchanges, maintains and disposes of its information; as well as any means through which the organization ensures that the value of that information is identified and used to its fullest extent, including the facilitation of efficient discoverability of information.

### **Information schedule:**

Approved by the CRO under the IMA, an information schedule provides a timetable that governs the lifecycle of government information. Information schedules specify how records are managed to ensure that government information is kept for as long as required and authorize the holding, transfer and disposal of records.

### **Integrity:**

The quality of being whole and unaltered through loss, tampering, or corruption. In the context of records, integrity relates to the potential loss of physical or intellectual elements after a record has been created. As one of the components used to determine a record’s authenticity, integrity is a relative concept that assesses whether the essential nature of a record has changed.

### **Lifecycle:**

The life span of information from its creation or receipt and use, through to its final disposition: destruction, archiving or alienation. 

### **Office of primary responsibility (OPR):**

The office that has primary responsibility for a category of records or holds the master/official file copy of any record series for that ministry or agency. The OPR maintains the official master copy of the records in order to satisfy operational, financial, legal, audit and other requirements.

### **Preservation:**

The principles, policies, rules, strategies, and activities aimed at prolonging the existence of an object by maintaining it in a condition suitable for use, either in its original format or in a more persistent format, while leaving intact the object's intellectual form.

## **Record:**

Information created, received and maintained by an organization or person, in pursuance of legal obligations or in the transaction of business. This includes records formats defined in the Interpretation Act and FOIPPA.

## **Records management:**

The field of management responsible for the efficient and systematic control of the creation, receipt, maintenance, use and disposition of records, including processes for capturing and maintaining evidence of and information about business activities and transactions in the form of records. (Source: ISO 15489, cited in International Council on Archives).

## **Reliability:**

In the context of the records management discipline, relates to the trustworthiness of a record as a statement of fact; a record’s ability to serve as reliable evidence. Reliability is established by examining the completeness of the record's form and the amount of control exercised on the process of its creation.

## **Service provider:**

A person retained under a contract or service agreement to perform services for a ministry, agency, board or commission subject to the Core Policy and Procedures Manual.

## **Supervisor:**

A person to whom an employee directly reports or a person who manages a service provider contract or service agreement.

